                                                       PROJECT DOCUMENTATION

1. TITLE :
Kubernetes-Based Canary Deployment using Kubernetes(KOPS Cluster) and Istio .

2. INTRODUCTION :
Modern application development demands fast and reliable deployment strategies. Canary deployment is a release technique that reduces the risk of 
introducing a new software version by gradually shifting traffic from the old version to the new version. This project demonstrates a canary deployment model 
using kubernetes(KOPS Cluster) and Istio, a service mesh platform, to control traffic flow between different versions of a deployed application.
The goal is to simulate real-world DevOps practices with traffic routing, performance monitoring, and rollbacks or promotions based on application behavior.

3. ABSTRACT :
This project simulates a canary deployment strategy on a Kubernetes(KOPS Cluster) environment. Here am creating KOPS Cluster 
because of high availability to my cluster two versions of a web application are deployed. And also creating a CI/CD pipeline for automate purpose .
 Using Istio, traffic is split between the stable (v1) and the canary (v2) versions — initially 80% to v1 and 20% to v2.
Performance is monitored using Grafana/Prometheus dashboards. Based on performance, the deployment is either rolled back or the canary is promoted to full production.
am collecting traffic logs and metrics dashoard .

4. TOOLS USED :
Git, GitHub, Jenkins, kubernetes(KOPS Cluster), Istio tool, Docker, Helm, DockerHub, prometheus & Grafana .

5. STEPS INVOLVED IN BUILDING THE PROJECT :

#STEP-1 : First of all taking a New Server with Server configurations are server_name : project-7 AMI : Amazon linux kernel 5.10, Instance_type : t2.medium,
           Key_Pair : sai-kp, Security_Group : All-Traffic, EBS : 25GIB . After connecting to Server with SSH .

#STEP-2 : Now To Set-Up the Tools Git, Docker, Jenkins, kubernetes(Kops Cluster), kubectl, Istio Tool, Promotheus & Grafana .

#STEP-3 : Now am creating a New Repository in GitHub and the Repository_Name is project-7 .

#STEP-4 : After am accessing the Jenkins dash board with public-ip:8080 . 8080 it is a port number . Now am creating a New Job for the pipeline running purpose .

- So Here am using CI/CD pipeline for some advanced stages because of automate purpose .

#Step-5 : Now am installed some plugins 

PLUGIN_NAME : pipeline stage view , node.js, docker pipeline, eclipse temurin installer, sonarqube scanner, OWASP Dependency Check .

- Now writing and implementing CI/CD pipeline with the stages .

    stage-1 : It is a clean workspace .
    stage-2 : To get the source code from github to ci server .
    stage-3 : Here am using Sonarqube for the code quality analysis purpose because of to scan the source code .
    stage-4 : Next am using quality gates because the purpose of code must pass before it can move forward in the build, test, or deployment process. if the code 
              incorrect then the pipeline is aborted .
    stage-5 : To build the source code .
    stage-6 : OWASP Dependency-Check into a CI/CD pipeline helps checks known vulnerabilities in your project dependencies. 
    stage-7 : To build the dockerfile .then a New docker-image has to come and also To Rename that docker-image .
    stage-8 : So here am using Trivy Tool because to scan the New docker-image .
    stage-9 : Last stage is new docker-image to push the docker-hub .

